---
weight: 1
bookFlatSection: true
bookToc: true
bookHidden: true
title: "Writing 2: Syllabus"
---

## Writing 2

{{< hint info >}}

**Obligatory COVID-19 Message:**

The pandemic is total bullshit. We're all struggling through this. But here we are. We might as well try to make the best of it.

{{< /hint >}}

Use as required. 

---

{{< button href="https://vimeo.com/320228756" >}}Rage Button (NSFW){{< /button >}} --- {{< button href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nkkJgdiR8IA" >}}Soothe Button{{< /button >}} --- {{< button href="https://youtu.be/HxM8Eb_IoFY" >}}Therapy Button{{< /button >}} --- {{< button href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W_aN81SBI3A" >}}Prof's Current Jam{{< /button >}}

---

## Course Description 


**Writing 2** is an introduction to academic writing and research. The course prepares you for work in a scholarly environment where you will require good habits of inquiry, analysis, and communication. We will cultivate
these critical practices by reading and
analyzing a series of demanding texts and articulating responses to them
in the form of essays. Shorter writing assignments will focus on a
number of skills that are important for taking part in academic
conversations. Among these are the formal `documentation of sources` and
the integration of source materials through `summary`, `paraphrase`, and
`quotation`.

During the Winter term we will turn our focus to academic research. Our
libraries hold an impressive array of traditional and electronic search
tools as well as millions of books, journal articles, and assorted
media. Although navigating this vast sea of information is intimidating,
it is important that you find your way: excellent research skills are
fundamental to your undergraduate training, regardless of your chosen
field of study. In consideration of its importance, we will spend a
significant amount of time learning how to use our library effectively.

- A more detailed description of the course objectives and outcomes may be
found in the [Writing 2/3 Course
Outcomes](http://dartmouth.edu/writing-speech/curriculum/writing-courses/writing-2-3/writing-2-3-course-outcomes)
statement on the Institute for Writing and Rhetoric website.

## Required Texts 

- [*The Open Handbook*](https://github.com/stockphrase/OpenHandbook/raw/master/Open%20Handbook.pdf) (.pdf), [*Open Handbook*](/resources/open-handbook) (web), by Alan C. Taylor
- Other course readings may be downloaded from [Canvas](https://canvas.dartmouth.edu).

## Academic Honesty 


All work submitted in this course must be your own and be written
exclusively for this course. The use of sources (ideas, quotations,
paraphrase) must be properly documented. Please read the [Academic Honor
Principle](https://students.dartmouth.edu/judicial-affairs/policy/academic-honor-principle)
for more information about the dire consequences of plagiarism. If you
are confused about when or how to cite information, please consult the
course handbook or ask me about it before submitting your work.

## Attendance 

Regular attendance is expected. Bracketing religious observance, severe
illness, or personal tragedy, **no more than three unexcused absences** in a
single term will be acceptable for this course. `This policy applies to
regular class meetings, assigned X hours, and TA meetings.` Four or more
unexcused absences may result in repercussions ranging from significant
reduction in GPA to failure of the course. If you have a religious
observance that conflicts with your participation in the course, please
meet with me beforehand to discuss appropriate accommodations.

## Papers 


You will submit three formal essays and several smaller writing
assignments in response to our readings and class discussions. The
formal essays focus on argumentation, synthesis, close reading, and
theoretical analysis. The exact nature and objective of each assignment
will be explained in greater detail throughout the course of the term.

-   `Formatting`: During the Fall term papers must be submitted in the
    MLA format; in the Winter term we will transition to the Chicago
    style. Information on these styles may be found in your handbooks.

-   `Late Papers`: Late papers will receive *a full letter grade
    deduction* for each day late.

-   `Revisions`: It is my practice to return essay drafts to you
    within one week. Afterward, you will have a minimum of one week to
    revise your writing. During this two-week revision cycle, I am happy
    to look at your drafts at any stage of development. Please feel free
    to meet with me during office hours (or by appointment) to go over
    your writing or discuss your ideas.

## Reading, Thinking, Discussing, Reflecting, Writing 


Each week of this course follows a relatively predictable pattern.
Mondays and Wednesdays are discussion days, where we commonly examine a
reading together in class; Fridays are workshop days, where we learn and
practice certain critical skills that are used in academic writing and
conversations. Here is a list of the typical assignments and activities
that we will do each week:

-   Before we meet to discuss a reading as a class, each of you will
    carefully read and critically engage the text on your
    owninterrogating, analyzing, and questioning the arguments, ideas,
    and assumptions you discover there.

-   As you read the text, I ask that you `annotate` itthat is, mark up
    the text by adding meaningful symbols, marginal notes, and questions
    on the document itself. Bring this annotated copy of the reading
    with you to class to help you engage in the group discussion and
    analysis.

-   After annotating the text, take `critical notes` on it. These
    notes will be invaluable to you later, when you write your essays.

-   After annotating and taking notes, post a `critical response` to
    the text on the discussion forum in
    [Canvas](https://canvas.dartmouth.edu). Attach your critical notes
    to the response post you submit in Canvas.

-   Finally, write a `reflective journal entry` each week that
    catalogs your thoughts and ideas for the week.

The following four numbered sections explain each of these assignments
in more detail:

### 1) Annotating Texts


Rather than use a laptop or tablet to read our course readings, *I ask
that you print them out and annotate them as part of your preparations
for class*. Annotation refers to the process of marking up a text by
adding your own words and symbols to the document itself. There is no
right or wrong way to mark up a text, but you should develop a system
that you are comfortable with and try to stick with it. Your objective
in annotation is to flag the key elements of a piece of writingthe
thesis, argumentative points, and pieces of evidence. In addition, use
the margins of the text to ask questions, make brief notes, indicate
confusion, define unfamiliar terms, and make connections to other texts.
This kind of work serves two purposes: first, it helps you maintain a
critical focus as you read; second, it helps you later if the text must
be used for study or your own writing. If you plan on being successful
in college, the ability to rigorously annotate texts is perhaps the most
helpful and important skill you can develop. Further advice and caveats
about annotation may be found in the [*Open
Handbook*](https://github.com/stockphrase/OpenHandbook/raw/master/Open%20Handbook.pdf).

### 2) Critical Reading Notes 


Create an electronic document for composing critical notes. Take
*detailed* notes on each reading. Since you will write essays about
these texts, these notes will be of significant help to you later. Your
aim here should be to *reduce the entire argument to its bare essentials
using paraphrase, summary, and selective quotation*. Carefully document
page numbers during this activity. Interrogate the text by asking
questions, raising objections, and making observations. Connect and
compare the reading to others we have read. Link to any outside research
you perform and define unfamiliar terms or words. At the end of this
process you should have a simplified version of the essay as well as a
number of critical observations, questions, and ideas that emerged in
the process of reading.

-   For more detailed information on the creation and purpose of these
    notes, read the chapters entitled "Annotation & Critical Reading"
    and \"Critical Notes\" in the [*Open
    Handbook*](https://github.com/stockphrase/OpenHandbook/raw/master/Open%20Handbook.pdf).
  

### 3) Reading Response Posts 


Before we meet to discuss a new course text, write a critical response
and post it to our online discussion forum in
[Canvas](https://canvas.dartmouth.edu). The post should discuss ideas,
arguments, or questions that arise from the reading(s). These are
writing and thinking exercises, not polished essays; however, I do
expect that your posts will grapple with the readings in an intelligent
way and demonstrate a great deal of thought and care. Here are some
principles to consider as you craft your posts:

-   `Good posts do not merely summarize`; rather, they should seek to
    *evaluate* and *engage* the writer's claims or ideas. Use your posts
    to try to come to grips with the reading's ideas (or some aspect of
    them).

-   `Good posts may seek to take issue with some of the thinking put
    forth in the reading`. However, a good post doesn't just say \"I
    agree with X\" or \"I disagree with Y.\" Instead, *explicit reasons
    are stated* and *explanations are made* that challenge or support
    the writer's ideas. As you will discover, part of this class
    involves learning to take responsibility for your claims and
    arguments. This can only be done by providing reasons for the views
    you hold.

-   `Good posts might alternatively attempt to forge a connection with
    another reading by demonstrating a relationship between the ideas or
    arguments involved`. For example, how might Author A respond to
    Author B? How do their views compare? Can their views be reconciled?
    Be specific. Show evidence.

-   `Good posts may ask questions or express confusion`. Ignorance or
    confusion is not something to be feared. As Henry David Thoreau
    [once
    argued](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/1022/1022-h/1022-h.htm),
    ignorance is often more useful than positive knowledge: confusion
    generates questions; questions inspire inquiry; inquiry produces
    knowledge and more interesting questions. Although you are free to
    pose questions in your posts, you should also make good efforts to
    answer them. Questions exist to drive us toward answers, not leave
    us spinning our wheels.

-   `Good posts are not sloppy and demonstrate a high degree of care`.

-   `Good posts avoid narcissism`. Don't make everything about you or
    something that happened to you. While you will of course draw on
    your own experiences, your focus should be on the text(s).

-   `Good posts are not derivative`. By this I mean that your post
    should be original and not a parasite clinging to the work of other
    students. Demand that everyone contribute their unique and
    individual perspective to our discourse community. Posts that
    clearly derive their very lifeblood from other posts should be met
    with hostility by the class. One way to avoid this problem is to
    post your response before reading the work of others. This does not
    mean that you should avoid responding to the thoughts of your
    colleagues. You should feel free to disagree or question the ideas
    of others (including your professor). This behavior is actually
    healthy for our discourse community.


### 4) End-of-Week Journal Reflection


Create an electronic document for use as a journal. By Friday each week,
compose a reflective post in that document that looks back over the
week's reading and discussions. What is your big takeaway for this week?
What was the most meaningful thing you heard, thought, or read? *It is
perfectly fine if your entry deals with things other than this course*.
Write as much as you like, but submit at least a half a page. We'll
often talk about these on Fridays and I may periodically ask to you to
turn them in.

## Typical Weekly Workflow and Checklist 


- [ ] Locate the new reading for the upcoming week in
[Canvas](https://canvas.dartmouth.edu). Download it. Print it out.

- [ ] Read it carefully. Slow down. Unplug. Take your time.

- [ ] Annotate as you read: make notations, flag important details, askvquestions.

- [ ] Practice deep note-taking. Reduce the argument to its essentials. Add your own thoughts/observations/questions.

- [ ] On the night before a new reading is due to be discussed, post a reading response to [Canvas](https://canvas.dartmouth.edu) and attach your critical notes file to it.

- [ ] Before class on Friday, write a reflective journal entry that takes stock of the week.

## ePortfolios


A large [body of academic
research](http://www.opensourcewriting.org/opensourcewriting/wp-content/uploads/ePortfolios.pdf)
indicates that students who curate their academic performances over time
and periodically revisit them experience measurable benefits in learning
and development. For this reason, the
[DartWrite](https://writing-speech.dartmouth.edu/dartwrite) program
provides every incoming student with a WordPress blog for use as an
ePortfolio. This portfolio is yours. You own it. You may design it in
any way you choose. You may post anything you like thereyour writing,
photography, reflections, whatever. We will talk more throughout the
term about these ePortfolios and how they may be used. To access your
ePortfolio, visit the login page at
[journeys.dartmouth.edu](https://journeys.dartmouth.edu/). Use your
NetID credentials to log in.

## Computer Policy


I ask that you `do not use laptops or tablets` in class to take notes
or reference the course readings. If you require some kind of
technological accommodation that runs counter to this policy, please
discuss this with me as soon as possible.

## Help With Your Writing


There are many sources of help for your writing assignments. I am happy
to meet with you all term during my office hours or by appointment. Each
of you will meet with your TA for 45 minutes per week to go over your
writing and plan revision. If you require further help, the
[RWIT](https://students.dartmouth.edu/rwit/) program offers excellent
peer tutoring on all phases of the writing processfrom generating ideas
to formal citation.

## Students With Disabilities 


All students are entitled to full access to this course, regardless of
disability. If you have a disability and anticipate needing
accommodations in this course, please contact me as soon as possible to
arrange a confidential meeting. Students requiring disability-related
services must register with the [Student Accessibility
Services](http://www.dartmouth.edu/~accessibility/) office. Once SAS has
authorized services, students must show the originally signed SAS
Services and Consent Form and/or a letter on SAS letterhead to me. As a
first step, if you have questions about whether you qualify to receive
academic adjustments and services, you should contact the SAS office.
All inquiries and discussions will remain confidential.

## Grading Breakdown 


The following assignments comprise your grade for the Fall term:

| Assignment       | Percentage         
| ------------- |:-------------
| Essay One     | 20%           
| Essay Two      |30%      
| Essay Three   | 30%
| Workshops     | 10%
| Online Posts  | 10%     



## Schedule of Readings and Assignments 

[Week One]():

{{< tabs "uniqueid" >}}
{{< tab "10.1.20" >}} 

Week One

* **QOD**: Tell me something you love. Something you hate.
* 

* [Assignment 1]()
* [Assignment 2]()
* [Question of the Day]()

 {{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "10.3.20" >}} # [Readings]() 

During the Winter term we will turn our focus to academic research. Our libraries have an impressive array of traditional and electronic search tools as well as millions of books, journal articles, and assorted media. Although navigating this vast sea of information is intimidating, it is important that you find your way: excellent research skills are fundamental to your undergraduate training, regardless of your chosen field of study. In consideration of its importance, we will spend a significant amount of time learning how to use our library effectively.

* [Assignment 1]()
* [Assignment 2]()
* [Question of the Day]()

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "10.5.20" >}} # [Readings]() 

Blah blah filler stuff.

* [Assignment 1]()
* [Assignment 2]()
* [Question of the Day]()

{{< /tab >}}


